Cheek cheek.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi.
Ateeq Dean: Come on, when
Ateeq Dean: I doing
Ateeq Dean: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I we I'm meeting together, you and I come
Ateeq Dean: This morning going to be just being you. I just actually ran inside. So, um, well, we had last night. It is kind of the weather changed in eight hours is crazy. I didn't expect any of this.
Wait.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's going on.
Ateeq Dean: It's snowing out here, started snowing and
Ateeq Dean: When I went in last night. It was only raining. It was nice outside. It wasn't cold or nothing. And then this morning, I get off of work and the streets are pros in black eyes on the street they close the freeway off. Yeah. So I mean, all kinds of crazy stuff but not
Gwenevere Abriel: Open for us here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now I know you're not a fan of winter.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it kind of like it's just the gray or the snow is not appealing as well.
Ateeq Dean: It's the gray and the snow and the funny thing is, the other day, Cara was telling me to that she's been feeling a little down and stuff. And I told her, it's the winter time, that does this.
Ateeq Dean: You know she's not used to this type of weather because he's from Florida also
Ateeq Dean: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So she tells me it's nice out there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I got shorts on today.
Ateeq Dean: It's cold.
Ateeq Dean: Are you gonna do
Ateeq Dean: I need milk and stuff. Okay.
Ateeq Dean: You're welcome.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, yeah. She just woke up to. Yeah, I didn't wake her up this morning. I just keep me in and I just started setting up and then I got a hold of bright heart. Okay. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me get a little note setup here and see where we're at. We've been doing individual couples therapy. So we'll do in div.
Two.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let me see if we are due for a review of some goals.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you been using some some of that structure of the I feel with Cara.
Gwenevere Abriel: And are you noticing that it gets to you can get to your point, faster.
Gwenevere Abriel: You get to the heart of what's going on for you a little faster or there's still some some trouble.
Ateeq Dean: Some to the last couple weeks here that we really haven't been arguments much. Okay. Yes. I read. It's been a lot better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, your ability to mirror because mirroring is a hard thing to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: When we're listening to someone else. Um, have you noticed that that part's harder listening to someone else without arguing back yeah yeah
Gwenevere Abriel: Amen. And that is hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, I know we want to put our own opinion in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get you okay oh yeah we I really needed extend these dates here. So let's jump down here. Let's look at how many milligrams of buprenorphine. Are you at
Ateeq Dean: Yes, it
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm just so you know what you set for yourself with your, your plan was to be you'd be at point five right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just saying that's what you guys do you think, Oh, I'm just gonna, I'm just going to do one milligram every, every two weeks. And I'm like, well, you can
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's what, that's where you would have been if you were doing, um, let me see.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, you want you what the treatment plan had looked like one milligram at a time. Now you're seeing that what you prefer what your body seems to register a little bit more comfortably is a half a milligram. Is that right,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Ateeq Dean: Then I finally have a little bit. I didn't eat nothing. Last night I didn't eat anything i don't know if i may be a little bit even remember what I put this morning. I'm so hungry. I put something in the oven, the sporting about something in there. I'm going to try to eat a
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, just kind of, I don't know how much Holly. I don't know how. Let me see here. I'm going to turn this off because it's on. I just don't want to overcook or something.
Ateeq Dean: Okay, it's good. I turned it off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me just read a little to 1120 plants.
At
six milligrams. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what's your plan as far as
Gwenevere Abriel: Over the next couple weeks. What do you want to do with your tapering I don't remember what group.
Ateeq Dean: Will see now it's been about a year and a half, that I stopped oxy oxy cotton.
Ateeq Dean: Uh huh. Before you know I used to buy stuff live on the streets and this and that. I used to go to another clinic and all that.
Ateeq Dean: But they wanted me to switch over to
Ateeq Dean: Was that
Ateeq Dean: There was something else. I don't even remember what it's called.
Ateeq Dean: They want me to take things to box and they wanted me to take that other stuff and I refused that
Ateeq Dean: Called it's that red liquid
Gwenevere Abriel: Forgot is called so tell me the point that you're trying to make
Ateeq Dean: The point that I'm trying to make is
Ateeq Dean: I'm back when I used to buy Suboxone
Ateeq Dean: I would do is, you know, I would do a whole one here and here and there. And then I started cutting it down to half, like I would do have their their their there, but I've never done any being less than that. And I'm scared of going below that.
Ateeq Dean: I know I do want to get on. I do, but I've never know. I just remember when those times, right, and have any
Ateeq Dean: I would go back to pills.
Ateeq Dean: You know, I've never paid to solve like now either
Gwenevere Abriel: How old were you when you started using OBS
Ateeq Dean: I'm 35 now I was 30
Gwenevere Abriel: So what were you doing before you were 30. What were you doing
Ateeq Dean: Uh, I would drink a little bit smoke a little bit of weed. But then I don't really drink anymore. I stopped drinking. I don't smoke weed.
Ateeq Dean: But that's it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what about fewer like 12 were you drinking alcohol or smoking.
Ateeq Dean: Playing video games.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think's different between, you know, age 30 and an age 12. What's the biggest difference between
Ateeq Dean: Mobile on half a lot so
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what the differences
Gwenevere Abriel: Just sort of picture one one screen over here, you got this. This young man, and then you have this 30 year old what's kind of the biggest, biggest difference
Ateeq Dean: I just remember at age 12 like I was very excited.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're excited
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, about the future.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Ateeq Dean: You know where the future is going to take me and the things I'm going to be doing.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then around 30. How is that what what what about excitement, then
Ateeq Dean: I was mainly stressed out a lot of stress and a lot of things I was blocking
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, tell me a little bit about them.
Ateeq Dean: A lot of a lot of my issues are like family problems that I've had and cut a hole dead and block off and you know my dad getting really sick and nail with the bipolar is and
Ateeq Dean: I felt like that was a lot on on us as a family.
Ateeq Dean: I wasn't going through that when I was 12 years old.
Ateeq Dean: And my dad and my dad is still you know back then I looked at my dad is, my the hero of the family and
Ateeq Dean: You know nothing could ever have been my dad, he's like Superman and
Gwenevere Abriel: See if we can find a place for that phone. I'm starting to get a little nauseous from it moving around.
Ateeq Dean: All with this. I was holding up. Sorry.
Ateeq Dean: There you go. That better I put in one spot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Share share a little bit about what it was like for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: To see vulnerability in your father, your hero right to see he does, it's like all children by the way we all do that we
Gwenevere Abriel: Our parents are a god they're right. They're all powerful. That's exactly how we start course we learn more and we say, Oh, they're flood to just like us. That's a big developmental milestone for people and not only
Gwenevere Abriel: Was your father flawed like me like you, because we're human, but he had this condition. Tell me a little bit about what that was like for you to come to that.
Ateeq Dean: I just remember
Ateeq Dean: The morning that
Ateeq Dean: The situation happened it was the beginning so we didn't even though he was bipolar. At the time I was in
Ateeq Dean: I was a senior in high school, when it happened now 17 out the youngest one out of my graduating class. But, uh, I just remember my mom yelling
Ateeq Dean: And we woke up to her yelling
Ateeq Dean: At my little sisters that were really young at the time and I have a sister that's older than me too. We all were trying to look for my dad and I went in the garage, because my dad is to lift weights and stuff like that.
Ateeq Dean: Rod. So when I went in there. My dad was passed out on the floor and I just remember that.
Ateeq Dean: He was passed out on the farm. I thought to himself on the head with the way
Ateeq Dean: But that wasn't that wasn't the case like often he started throwing up he was out of it and he started throwing up but blood started coming out of his mouth and he started smelling like bleach.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah. So my dad was trying to commit suicide. So I saw bad at 17
Ateeq Dean: You know, so I was, Oh, they're calling nine one. And I was older, watching my sister's yelling, screaming their heads off. And it was a big mess that A and I just remember moms losing their mind and
Ateeq Dean: didn't heal after that.
Gwenevere Abriel: How did you feel when you saw it.
Ateeq Dean: I thought my dad would just die that day that I was gonna die.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a thought. See if you can find the emotion that went with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Scared. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. And who did you talk to about feeling scared, who could listen to
Ateeq Dean: Really talk to anybody about it.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, that's like
Ateeq Dean: I didn't really have friends and stuff like that that I couldn't really talk to
About any of that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that what you mean by blocked those feelings. The scared feeling so the ones that got sort of pushed down pushed away.
Gwenevere Abriel: Think of a time later on, let's say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Where that came up where you had that kind of degree of scared to run for another time.
Ateeq Dean: When I got arrested and when
Ateeq Dean: It's hot in here. I'm gonna sorry I know I shouldn't be moving this I have the heater on and I'm just gonna turn on the fan, because it's so hot now.
Ateeq Dean: I'm not trying to make any
Ateeq Dean: Difference, are you, I'm gonna show
Ateeq Dean: Okay, I'm back.
Gwenevere Abriel: To start seeing, seeing your father, maybe and and being arrested. Do you see anything in common between those two those two stories.
Ateeq Dean: I was good at both times.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, both. Yeah. What was the thought.
Ateeq Dean: I didn't know what was going to happen. And that's what scares me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uncertainty about the future.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm kind of looking at your life. Now, where does that show up. Where does that fear of uncertainty about the future. Where does it show up these days.
Ateeq Dean: Well, right now.
Ateeq Dean: My girlfriend, she's a stay at home mom and I'm the only one working
Ateeq Dean: And I feel like
Ateeq Dean: I could lose my job and everything can just, you know, two, three paychecks away from being homeless myself, you know, so that's where the uncertainty come from. And that's where this kid I get scared thinking of that and just things like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though you can hear rationally.
Gwenevere Abriel: Most people are in are living paycheck to paycheck.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even though you can hear that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: How much time of the day. How many hours. How much time is spent worrying about that uncertainty.
Ateeq Dean: It used to be a lot more than it is now, I've kind of
Ateeq Dean: stopped thinking about that because when I started thinking about bills and stuff I
Ateeq Dean: A while back I had, I had a little extra money with me. But then I went to the casino and blew it all. You know, so that it's not that I have a gambling addiction. I feel like, okay, I'm going to go win.
Ateeq Dean: $300,000 and then pay everything off and then be this hero, you know, but then I told myself like stop being this hero that you're not
Ateeq Dean: That realization to stop just stop. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think you've mentioned that gambling was a part of a more regular activity. How frequently do you go in a given month
Ateeq Dean: I used to go every day. Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so over the last, let's say last month. How many times did you go
Ateeq Dean: I went three times last month.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
How much money was 120 400
Gwenevere Abriel: And how much was lost over that same month period.
Ateeq Dean: Three 200 what 3200
Gwenevere Abriel: And you lost 3200 yeah 124 yeah okay
Ateeq Dean: Good. Then I put more back so 3200
Gwenevere Abriel: You lost 3200 you won 2400
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're down at 100
Gwenevere Abriel: So when you look at
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether because see no will always win.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: The odds are against you.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what would it be like to give that up completely that it turns out that hard work and turning all your energy into, you know, business venture or honing a new
Gwenevere Abriel: A new skill or a new training or going into business with some of what would it be like to let go of a lottery mentality that they'll be this windfall and it's locked in chance and done it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What would it be like to never do it again. What would life be like DC
Ateeq Dean: Prior to me going. Last month I didn't go for a year.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Ateeq Dean: So, I mean, I did really good. I didn't go at all and then
Ateeq Dean: I just had my internet connection was lost.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your good
Ateeq Dean: Um, yeah, I didn't go for a year. I mean, I did. I went in January, I did. I went a couple times in January, and I should have word I did go and I, what I did was I mentally told myself, I'm just going to bury what was lost and start fresh and I came to realization that I'm not going to be
Gwenevere Abriel: One.
Ateeq Dean: That I'm not going to be your hero.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are a hero.
Ateeq Dean: Your hero. Yeah, but
Ateeq Dean: Not like that like I was trying to be a hero in a whole different way.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fast money that's that whole other life that's that fast money not not looking at the moral implications. That's an old life.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's really letting go of that. And typically, one way to register whether one is and you know they've got a gambling problem. Maybe you don't identify as as as an addict. But one way to find out is
Gwenevere Abriel: an addict. Interestingly won't stop until they've lost everything. Yeah, it's weird. You think
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, no. No one's going to do that all when if I get this know because they will keep them. They'll bet that no gamble that until they won't stop until it's all come
Ateeq Dean: To realize that up. Don't stop till it's all gone. Gone.
Ateeq Dean: Didn't even matter. I'm gonna try one.
Ateeq Dean: Didn't matter to me it's it's crazy. But you're right. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's it's ironic because most people will say, Well, that doesn't make any sense. Well, a gambler wants to be the hero wants to have all this, but the mentality is it i'll just but i can i will i can i can bet again and again and unconsciously it's until it's all gone.
Ateeq Dean: Over
Ateeq Dean: Something hard to even bring up to care about light Intel or any of this. She thought I was because I told her, I'm going to be at work late
Ateeq Dean: Late I was lying to her. She was more concerned that I was lying to her.
Ateeq Dean: Like, I should have been more honest with her about it, but we had a discussion about because she was like, where's all this money going to God. Oh no, I don't know.
Ateeq Dean: So she has no idea. You know, I did. We talked about it. This was about a good week ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you prepared. What that ruptured, you have some force.
Ateeq Dean: That I need to tell you something today and just and I talked to her. She doesn't believe in gambling. She's, she's never believed in that like gambling or any of that.
Ateeq Dean: You know she
Ateeq Dean: She told me. Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: And what started
Ateeq Dean: Me. Well, my dad would take off and you know back when I was at home, I would watch him, so I would always my mom would tell me go with him and my mom, she has arthritis can really go so I would go to watch my dad.
Ateeq Dean: And my dad would go to these places casinos and stuff like that. And that's me after watching for hours and hours and hours at a time. Guess what got me like I'm turning into my
Ateeq Dean: In ways. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: But, you know, you also you could see the point of abstaining from gambling for a year.
Gwenevere Abriel: And, you know, you're being able to talk to care of is an important part of it. That means that you're holding yourself accountable. You're not hiding in shame and you're talking with her. I think that's really smart. Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: And me talking to her about it. Actually, I pay all my bills from good now. I made sure I got paid on the seventh. I didn't go and using that could have went but I I told myself, I'm not going to go anymore in my gas bill paid at all.
Ateeq Dean: So myself. I'm just going to start paying I started feeling bad, because you know we have a baby. I could have bought her stuff could have bought me baby stuff and just things like that and
Ateeq Dean: I didn't realize it at the time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right here, where you're holding yourself responsible for what happened. You are the one that gambled you are the one that believed that there'll be this windfall and you are the one that didn't have this money to pay this bill.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all it takes is that that amount of of ownership and responsibility. Now, how far behind. Are you on bills right now or are you all caught up.
Richard to catch up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gambling
Gwenevere Abriel: That's about it. Gambling brought you down 1800 hello hard work and following through and not having this lottery sort of windfall wishful thinking mentality.
Gwenevere Abriel: You are able to stay on top of your bills.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, but when I first met you. You didn't want it. You didn't you want to contact the gas company, you didn't want. He didn't want to talk to him.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, that's a difference. You're now talking with care about the gambling you're finding out how much bills are your, your growing up, man.
Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: Well to yes
Gwenevere Abriel: We do I know it's uncomfortable.
Gwenevere Abriel: But isn't as bad as you thought it would be.
Ateeq Dean: I, I just realized. Too bad you know I have a lot of my life that I do take for granted. You know, there's people that don't have anybody. There's out here, the homeless rate is high.
Ateeq Dean: And you know even even up somewhere to be even this with all that Tricity are now gas or even all food to someone that's homeless is more than enough.
Ateeq Dean: You know, so I just realized, you know, I've taken a lot for granted. I have a good woman. I shouldn't take that for granted because there's
Ateeq Dean: You know by work with guys that are single, and they wish they had a good woman in their life they they're single don't have anybody they make good money, but they have no one to share that with their alone.
Ateeq Dean: So, you know, I realized that
Ateeq Dean: That and I don't want to start my year off bad either. And I don't want to drag her in a hole that she shouldn't be in. It's not just me. My daughter and Cara and grow fitness. You know, I'm responsible for them.
Gwenevere Abriel: The uncertainty that comes with
Gwenevere Abriel: Gambling right you're uncomfortable with someone certainty. But for someone who is relying so Cara's relying on you and you might be risking because gambling. It's not 100% no one right if the casinos gonna win.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Imagine the discomfort in the distress over that.
Ateeq Dean: It's breached just folio
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right. I'd like to continue to explore some goals with you that you had said, and let's just see where you are with them. Okay. How do you think you're doing as far as your tapering you think you're progressing the way you'd like talk to me.
Ateeq Dean: Oh, I feel
Ateeq Dean: I'm doing pretty good where I'm at now. I don't want to taper too fast. Okay, I get five Mark, I just don't want to go back to opiates. I don't want to get on another addiction i mean i don't i'm fine here out six. What I get to five is rare.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because why is that a magic number for you. Tell me.
Ateeq Dean: I just remember
Ateeq Dean: After that,
Ateeq Dean: When I was buying subs.
Ateeq Dean: When I came down to the last of them yeah I broke good at half that I did have, and then after that I went back to pills and I don't want to entertain myself like I am now but I just remember how fast I went back to build it. I'm scared of that. I don't want to go back to that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, hold on, half course. I don't know how you saying half of an eight milligram strip
Ateeq Dean: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: So hold on what you did was go eight eight or zero. When have you ever done that here and bright heart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so don't let your irrational addiction voice telling you that's what we're doing.
Ateeq Dean: Is telling me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doing it we're reviewing it, because that's what that's what the attic does is it says it's going to be that bad and accurate.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do you could do even less than a half a milligram reduction at a time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the whole point is slowly you have this reinforcement, you have this success and you say, Oh, look at that. And I had someone in my family get sick and I
Gwenevere Abriel: Used social medicine. I talked with my sweetheart I exercised. I did my breathing. I got into my hobbies. I did the things that are healthy, you have that memory and then something else happens, you lose a child, something changes and you have another stress.
Gwenevere Abriel: The rest of your life, there will be challenges they're not going anywhere. I have them you will have them.
Gwenevere Abriel: No. No one likes to hear that we don't like to hear that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's the truth. I can almost promise it
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because right
Gwenevere Abriel: Things break. They were down there's miscommunications those jobs shortages, the demand isn't as high as the supply things change. It has to do with your ability to meet that distress with new and improved skills, what you used before.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was reaching for a substance and what you need to be able to do now is probably to talk to your sweetheart. Right. And to also regulate in the moment to do that breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And other hobbies to
Gwenevere Abriel: Watch what you didn't do. Before was make changes in your behaviors you weren't making those changes and you were you weren't really tapering what you were doing was
Gwenevere Abriel: Stopping this and starting this and stopping and starting this. That was not a brain. Yeah. So I hear you on the fear. And so, but I we I was using a very specific word. Let's listen very closely to the word I've chosen
Gwenevere Abriel: When you assess your progress.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to quit my drug use and Suboxone it's February 11 you are at five, six, sorry, six milligrams. Once you to tell me
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you assess your progress as what would be a word to encapsulate that
Ateeq Dean: I feel like my practice is good.
Ateeq Dean: I do like I'm doing good, because I haven't touched. I know Suboxone is yes, it is an opiate but I haven't touched oxycodone opiate
Gwenevere Abriel: And have you taken more than what you're prescribed
Gwenevere Abriel: There. And do you know that what you were doing before was your abruptly take remove hurrying up I want to all right now and you were taking more you were
Gwenevere Abriel: Not following your doctor's orders so progress for you, his fault doing the prescribed amount
Gwenevere Abriel: So good feel pride in that
Gwenevere Abriel: You weren't doing that before.
Ateeq Dean: I'm all what I was trying to say is that stuff is called methadone is what they wanted me to get on
Ateeq Dean: Yeah, and I didn't want to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, let's go to the next one. Just checking in on spirituality
Gwenevere Abriel: How much does that play a part, when there's been moments for some people they meet a new stress someone sick in your family. Right. Something happens like that. And some people go to a higher power for you. I take do you go there as a sense of refuge and support as
Ateeq Dean: Well, because
Ateeq Dean: I don't go there because my family is from two different religions and they're two different religions that really don't get along with one another and I stay out of the religion circle and
Gwenevere Abriel: We've touched on the specifics of this, but that doesn't actually make sense to me. Let me tell you why I could have parents that are Catholic and Jewish and, like, just don't quite get what you're saying, why is it you would deprive yourself from whatever you want to do.
Ateeq Dean: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's your parents did this tell me more about how you wouldn't see because we have a unique. I hadn't heard your, your specific sort of worldview about how to live.
Ateeq Dean: Well, I've you I've worked with people that are very spiritual also
Ateeq Dean: And I see that the hell they are towards other people, they're rude and mean but there's this spiritual person and
Ateeq Dean: I don't want to be that person.
Gwenevere Abriel: But, but why would you think you why, why, if I said well I
Ateeq Dean: Like okay, it's my own mind. I feel like they've limited themselves being this spiritual person. I believe in universal law. I don't believe in all that
Gwenevere Abriel: Take universal law and
Cancel.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here.
Gwenevere Abriel: I believe in universal law and when my sisters. I think it was her sister cousin was sick. I
Gwenevere Abriel: I made that connection and I used it as a resource and sanctuary for universal lot. I don't care whether you call it the Easter Bunny.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay matter to me what I'm asking you is whether you have access to it for sanctuary support.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you access it and support for yourself. I don't care what your family doesn't care about you. Okay.
I
Ateeq Dean: I watch YouTube videos on universal law and stuff like that and positive vibrations and what you put out there in the universe. I watched, stuff like that. And that's my way of having my support system through it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you do it, tell me a story. When was the last time you saw it as a as a sort of a coping skill, something came up and you went to it to feel better. Tell me a story.
Gwenevere Abriel: The answer might be. I never do.
Ateeq Dean: And yeah, I don't really. I mean, I think about it. I go to sleep.
Gwenevere Abriel: So my invitation to you is to play with that, just like you would the hobby, just like you would for some people it's a coloring book it's going for a walk. Yeah, reading a book, picking up the baby or sewing or knitting, whatever.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you, you may want to play with that a little bit. When you say for you, your trigger might be up uncertainty about the future.
Ateeq Dean: Let me. Am I making you nosy
Gwenevere Abriel: No, sorry, I just read some coffee and maybe Burke.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I have your condition that makes me. Whatever. Let's move on. So what I'm suggesting to you is that when you have one of those those negative thoughts of low
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I can't control the future, what if something catastrophic happens that you catch it and that you go and do hobby.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or see what happens if you actually go watch one of those videos. See if you like it, see if 10 minutes passes. See if you're like oh my gosh, an hour has passed, and I'm not even thinking about a craving. I'm not even worried anymore about trying to control my future.
Gwenevere Abriel: To see what I'm trying to get at. Use it as a coping skill as because for some people, we would be saying, Okay, let's do a meditation. Let's do a prayer.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right or not. Some people have no spiritual connection at all. And they call a friend, um, you know what I mean, that's fine. I don't care. I'm not hung up on what you do.
Ateeq Dean: Oh, I know. I know. Well, what I've been doing to is, yeah, I do have my word job that I go to to work and and all that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Work.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're off duty. You can't go into work. You've got to have other ones. That's what I'm getting at. I
Ateeq Dean: I started this other projects.
Ateeq Dean: I didn't get to finish it. But yeah, I started. I'm doing shelves at a smoke shop.
Ateeq Dean: Right, there's like 30 of them. I'm doing I'm doing this. I'm doing le for them. I'm doing LED lighting up a cases.
Ateeq Dean: So I started just started Saturday nine
Gwenevere Abriel: And is that project at home so that you could be doing it at home if you needed to
Ateeq Dean: Know, I go to the shop and they start there. I do it there because their display shelves are there so
Gwenevere Abriel: That takes getting in a car getting ready. I want you to have something that takes two seconds to do
Two seconds to do two seconds.
Gwenevere Abriel: If we can't get in between, let's say you have a catastrophic thought, Oh my gosh, I worry about the future. You've got to be able to have access to resources, taking a bath. Miss massaging with yummy smelling lotion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, you see, we've got to have stuff that's not only long term love the project idea totally love it, but we also have to have right that that diet for Malik breathing is a good one. When we can self regulate we need things that can happen, quick, quick, quick, quick, quick. Yeah, but
Ateeq Dean: When I was doing opiates.
Ateeq Dean: roxy's
Ateeq Dean: coping mechanism was I blocked off so much my best coping mechanism was to sleep.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well then that's
Gwenevere Abriel: Going to be to go to. That's not it, then, that is not it.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, you got it. Because what that says to the psyche is I can't be in my solution that's escape.
Ateeq Dean: Now see, that's what I
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the same. That's the same know what what I'm introducing to you has to do with getting into things that you're passionate about things that remind you, I can stay alert excited enthusiastic inspired. I like who I am. I'm in my solution sleep says I can't solve this
Ateeq Dean: And I know of course we do need our sleep, but I don't don't sleep like more
Ateeq Dean: When I was depressed. I mean, I sleep. Yes, of course. I sleep and then I will go to work. But, you know, we all need our sleep, but I don't see
Gwenevere Abriel: Was. Let's start over. Okay.
Ateeq Dean: I'm hard to talk to
Now,
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just keep it nice and simple what we're talking about right now are coping skills. I want to have a nice long list for you. I want you to have it. And once you have it posted everywhere so that if the thought comes to mind.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to use or you start to romanticize something that you catch it quickly and you go do this list.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't care if sleep is one of them. But it can't be your only one work can't be your only one because you're not on shift project, you might be snowed in I need stuff that you can get to
Gwenevere Abriel: Set in a second and a YouTube video might be something. So what I'm inviting is that he remember it when you start to worry about the future maybe not going to food salt, sugar, but going instead to let me feed the soul.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean nourish if I'm afraid because that's what concern is a worry, it's actually fear I can't control the future, what's going to happen. Well, of course, you're afraid you're
Gwenevere Abriel: No one can we don't know what's going to happen in the future. I don't have only getting hit by a bus later on today.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, well, I don't have a lot of buses down my street so it's pretty low statistical likelihood
Gwenevere Abriel: But I do know if a stress happens what I have to do and I want that for you to
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what we're building right now. Would you be willing to add a few more. What can you do right in your house quickly.
Gwenevere Abriel: To distract you, and to get in to your passions and things you enjoy what could you do
Ateeq Dean: Take shower shower.
Gwenevere Abriel: Shower. Nice. Nice. Nice.
Ateeq Dean: That's up to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like it. So before you sit there and feed the neural network because what will happen is you'll have
Gwenevere Abriel: The neural network all the history and memories and thoughts, the senses the smells the taste all of that you have lots and lots of wiring in your brain that has to do with that history of all that drug use. There's, there was a lot. There were years of it right
Gwenevere Abriel: So the second case, you have a certain smell smell smells a really strong one.
Gwenevere Abriel: It can get you into that neural network and you might start to feed it with. Well, I could just do one or I could just get away and you said, Oh that was so great. It was so great.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're spending time seconds, even in that neural network. What we want you to do is immediately.
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't go there. You cannot entertain it. The longer you spend in that thought process not neural network it increase the length of your rationalize it and that's when the scary stuff happens. So my point is, as quickly as you possibly can. You want to get into doing something healthy
Ateeq Dean: I see. Okay.
Ateeq Dean: So yeah that's that's
Ateeq Dean: A good way for me to do is to take a nice hot shower.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that's all.
Ateeq Dean: I roll into it because it happens, it happens. I've had thoughts, you know, a lot of them come from.
Ateeq Dean: You know, watching my dad at the casino to does that just happened.
Ateeq Dean: I just remember, you know, there was good times we had there because my mom and dad, we all used to go there was times where she could go to and I just remember you know now that they don't really do much a stay at home all day so I don't really get to take my mom out like I used to.
Ateeq Dean: Add. She doesn't believe in, like, getting out of her room. So my mind will take me off. I remember when I used to take your mom and dad at the casino.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Ateeq Dean: And the crazy thing was to I was on the oxy cotton when I was taking them to the casino. So that's like
Gwenevere Abriel: A double whammy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Places. It is a is probably going to have a connection to that that substance use on neural network and I really recommend you don't know there
Gwenevere Abriel: I know
Ateeq Dean: That's what happened. It took me to those thoughts to remember used to bring a mom and dad here and then oh, like, yeah, maybe I should go for a little bit.
Yes.
Ateeq Dean: What do you
Ateeq Dean: Do anything. I didn't take a nice hot shower.
Ateeq Dean: Think about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I remember is I lost 1800 dollars. How did my wife feel, how do I feel that's not what I believe and I don't believe
Gwenevere Abriel: In in adding more uncertainty to my family. You need to force yourself. I know it, it seems like so what I'm trying to tell you is it's so big that all those visits to the casino and substance use and family if you stay over there. The only thing you need to think about is the good stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's going to seem reasonable and logical that you go, you've got a force and everybody thinks, Oh, it's just going to be so easy. No, you have to turn it on. You have to turn your attention. Oh my gosh.
Gwenevere Abriel: As if it was a hot coal someone just put in your hand. Oh my gosh, I can't have that thought. Take a hot shower.
Ateeq Dean: Why does that happen. That's crazy. But yeah, that happens to me. That's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because there's so many neural connections. There's so much wiring and the brain. It doesn't have a moral opinion. It basically says all of this.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to get a dopamine hit. And because we're wired to survive and we are reinforced by that tiny bit of
Gwenevere Abriel: Positive. I don't mean it's saying, yeah, go do those things that make you feel good because it wants you to live. It's just an organic thing, but you have a more evolved part of your brain. This part the frontal cortex.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you go, that's just ridiculous. I'm more than just an animal that only you know is is is focused on a dopamine receptor till I'm in. I'm in a family and I, this is what I believe in. And I can feel good. I can, I can be patient. I value patience and forethought I'm not just an animal.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we, we are. I mean, we've got that part. Our reptilian part of our brain, but it's the least evolved part of our brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: We also have this really beautiful part up front. That's it hasn't been around quite as long
Gwenevere Abriel: Which was okay. You're being ridiculous. Don't even spend time in that thought. Let me just go to the next right thing and guess what you know what you have, you have the next day. Well, you don't have to go to your wife and say,
Gwenevere Abriel: I just lost 1800 dollars.
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a whole day. We don't have to do that anymore. Now you have an open, honest relationship you have nothing to hide.
Ateeq Dean: The part that touched me the most was that she wasn't out about. I mean, of course, she is upset about the last two
Ateeq Dean: What upset her was I didn't tell her I was honest with her and I told her what it will. What am I one and she said it didn't even matter if you want to do you lie to me. And that's what matters to me, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: For a lot of people. It has to do with I'm your best friend. I'm the one person of all the people in the world.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, we trust each other. It is a precious thing that that lovers have that these spouses, that these partners have that we say
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll treat everybody like this but you know you're the one I will, I will, I will share all that is vulnerable about me and I will trust you with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she wants that she wants to be that person and I imagine you want to be there for her to that's what is so intimate about two people they hold
Gwenevere Abriel: All that warm, fuzzy underbelly stuff, all that stuff that's that they could hurt you. With but they don't they love you. She wants that feeling. And when you don't share with her what's going on, she's not that person.
Right, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: When we meet again.
Ateeq Dean: Monday would be
Gwenevere Abriel: Broke, and let's set something up for. How about February 25 can we do eight o'clock. Again, it's a Tuesday, same kind of feeling but two weeks from now.
Ateeq Dean: Eight o'clock. Yeah, the 25th.
Gwenevere Abriel: This way, you're just coming off work right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool. Let's see.
Ateeq Dean: I'm more awake at this time.
Ateeq Dean: But luck is where I'm out of it. I can we
Gwenevere Abriel: Consider homework. Consider homework fatigue is you
Gwenevere Abriel: Starting to worry
Gwenevere Abriel: And going and watching a video just see what happens. Let that be a little invitation for homework for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, let's read a little universal law. See how you feel. After that, see where your mind goes, because there's no connection to that neural network over here that negative stuff. I'm thinking like there is
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, my dear. I will see you on Monday. I hope you
Ateeq Dean: Have a good weekend. Okay.